Add docs for KEP-3329 Retriable and non-retriable Pod failures for Jobs (#35219)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job.md

from failed Jobs is not lost inadvertently.
{{< /note >}}

### Pod failure policy

{{< note >}}

> This feature is introduced as an Alpha feature controller by two feature gates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only configure a Pod failure policy for a Job if you have two
[feature gates](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled in your cluster:
```

`PodDisruptionConditions` and `JobPodFailurePolicy`, both available in Kubernetes v1.25.
`PodDisruptionConditions` enables
{{< /note >}}

Example job configuration using this feature:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:

>       - name: job-container
>         image: job-image

Reviewer: I'd write:
```suggestion
      - name: example
        image: example-job-image:v1
```

>         command: ["./program"]

Reviewer: Consider omitting this line:
```suggestion
```

  backoffLimit: 6
  podFailurePolicy:
    rules:
    - action: Ignore
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget
    - action: FailJob
      onExitCodes:
        operator: In
        values: [40,41,42]
```

{{< note >}}

> The `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field in JobSpec API can only be used in combination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use define a `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field for a Job, you must also define that Job
```

> with `.spec.restartPolicy=Never`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with `.spec.restartPolicy` set to `Never`.
```

This avoids switching between YAML style (`restartPolicy: Never`) and a different style.

(see: [Pod backoff failure policy](#pod-backoff-failure-policy)).

For example, you may want to terminate a job as soon as one of its Pods fails
with an exit code indicating a software bug. This may allow you to cut down costs of running computational
workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod restarts. On the other hand, you may want
not to count pod failures caused by disruptions (such as preemption, eviction API
or taint-based Pod deletions) towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` counter.

You can satisfy the above use cases by specifying a Pod failure policy
(in the `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field) for handling Pod failures based on the
container exit codes and the Pod conditions.

When you enable `PodDisruptionsCondition` in your cluster, a dedicated Pod
`DisruptionTarget` condition is added to indicate a disruption. Its `reason`
field additionally indicates one of the following reasons for the Pod
termination:
- `PreemptionByKubeScheduler` (Pod preempted by kube-scheduler)
- `DeletionByTaintManager` (Pod deleted by taint manager due to NoExecute taint)
- `EvictionByEvictionAPI` (Pod evicted by Eviction API)
- `DeletionByPodGC` (an orphaned Pod deleted by PodGC)

> Here is a manifest for a Job that defines a `podFailurePolicy:`

Reviewer: Oops, I think this should be:
```suggestion
Here is a manifest for a Job that defines a `podFailurePolicy`:
```

`manualSelector: true` tells the system that you know what you are doing and to allow this
mismatch.

### Pod failure policy {#pod-failure-policy}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="alpha" >}}

> {{< note >}}

Reviewer 2: This is consistent with how we inform about the need to enable feature gates in other places. For example: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#job-tracking-with-finalizers

> {{< note >}}

Author: Other sections (such as Mutable Scheduling Directives or Job tracking with finalizers) use notes for the feature gate info so I prefer to be consistent

> You can only configure a Pod failure policy for a Job if you have the

Author: I think I prefer the previous wording here - it makes it clear that `JobPodFailurePolicy` is the feature gate name,

[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)

> enabled in your cluster: `JobPodFailurePolicy`. Additionally, it is recommended

Author: I think I prefer the previous wording here - it makes it clear that JobPodFailurePolicy is the feature gate name,

> enabled in your cluster: `JobPodFailurePolicy`. Additionally, it is recommended

Reviewer 2: maybe this would work too

```suggestion
`JobPodFailurePolicy` enabled in your cluster. Additionally, it is recommended
```

to enable the `PodDisruptionsCondition` feature gate in order to be able to detect and handle
pod disruption conditions in the Pod failure policy (see also:
[Pod disruption conditions](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions#pod-disruption-conditions)). Both feature gates are
available in Kubernetes v1.25.
{{< /note >}}

In some situations you may want to have a better control over handling of Pod
failures than the default policy based on the Job's `.spec.backoffLimit` gives
(see: [Pod backoff failure policy](#pod-backoff-failure-policy)).

For example, you may want to terminate a job as soon as one of its Pods fails
with an exit code indicating a software bug. This may allow you to cut down costs of running
workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod restarts. On the other hand, you may want
not to count pod failures caused by disruptions (such as preemption, eviction API
or taint-based Pod deletions) towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` counter.

You can satisfy the above use cases by specifying a Pod failure policy
(in the `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field) for handling Pod failures based on the
container exit codes and the Pod conditions.

> 

Reviewer 2: I agree that a list would help understand the 2 use cases. However, this is not the right way to cut them.

```markdown
In some situations, you  may want to have a better control when handling Pod
	failures than the control provided by the default policy, which is based on the Job's (`.spec.backoffLimit`](#pod-backoff-failure-policy)). These are some examples of use cases:

* To optimize costs of running
	workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod restarts, you can terminate a job as soon as one of its Pods fails with an exit code indicating a software bug. 
* To guarantee that your job finishes even if there are disruptions, you can ignore pod failures caused by disruptions (such as preemption, eviction API,
	or taint-based Pod deletions) so that they don't count towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` counter.
```

> 

Author: Applied, but rephrased a bit in the latest commit, please take a look

> 

Reviewer 2: looks good :smiley:

Here is a manifest for a Job that defines a `podFailurePolicy`:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: main
        image: main-image:v1
        ...
  backoffLimit: 6
  podFailurePolicy:
    rules:
    - action: FailJob
      onExitCodes:
        containerName: main      # optional
        operator: In             # one of: In, NotIn
        values: [42]
    - action: Ignore             # one of: Ignore, FailJob, Count
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget   # indicates Pod disruption
```

> The first rule of the Pod failure policy, in the example above, specifies that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the example above, the first rule of the Pod failure policy specifies that
```

the Job should be marked failed if the `main` container fails with the 42 exit
code. For the `main` container specifically:

- an exit code of 0 means that the container succeeded
- an exit code of 42 means that the **entire Job** failed
- any other exit code represents that the container failed, and hence the entire
  Pod. The Pod will be re-created if the total number of restarts is
  below `backoffLimit`. If the `backoffLimit` is reached the **entire Job** failed.

{{< note >}}
Because the Pod template specifies a `restartPolicy: Never`,
the kubelet does not restart the `main` container in that particular Pod.
{{< /note >}}

The second rule of the Pod failure policy, specifying the `Ignore` action for
failed Pods with condition `DisruptionTarget` excludes Pod disruptions from
being counted towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` counter.

{{< note >}}
If the Job failed, either by the Pod failure policy or Pod backoff

> failure policy, and the Job is running multiple Pods, Kubernetes shuts down all
> the Pods in that Job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
failure policy, and the Job is running multiple Pods, Kubernetes terminates all
the Pods in that Job that are still Pending or Running.
```

  also define that Job's pod template with `.spec.restartPolicy` set to `Never`.
- the Pod failure policy rules you specify under `spec.podFailurePolicy.rules`
  are evaluated in order. Once a rule matches a Pod failure, the remaining of
  the rules are ignored. When no rule matches the Pod failure, the default
  handling applies.
- you may want to restrict a rule to a specific container by specifing its name
  in`spec.podFailurePolicy.rules[*].containerName`. When not specified the rule
  applies to all containers. When specified, it should match one the container
  or initContainer names in the Pod template.
- you may specify the action taken when a Pod failure policy is matched by
  `spec.podFailurePolicy.rules[*].action`. Possible values are:
  - `FailJob`: use to indicate that the Pod's job should be marked as Failed and
     all running Pods should be terminated.
  - `Ignore`: use to indicate that the counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit`
     should not be incremented and a replacement Pod should be created.
  - `Count`: use to indicate that the Pod should be handled in the default way -
     the counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` should be incremented.

> #### Pod failure policy examples {#pod-failure-policy-examples}

Reviewer 2: This kind of content doesn't fit in "concepts".

If you consider this is important, you could create a new task https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/

Author: My intention for this section is to improve understanding of the concept of "Pod failure policy". I think providing a short example helps with this goal. This approach is used for example for init containers https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/init-containers/#using-init-containers. Similarly for `Deployments` https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/.
But I agree the long section might be overloading the user with examples. 

I guess we can package the examples as a "Reducing costs using Pod failure policy" task or such.

Reviewer: Thanks @mimowo

{{< /note >}}

These are some requirements and semantics of the API:
- if you want to use a `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field for a Job, you must
  also define that Job's pod template with `.spec.restartPolicy` set to `Never`.
- the Pod failure policy rules you specify under `spec.podFailurePolicy.rules`
  are evaluated in order. Once a rule matches a Pod failure, the remaining of
  the rules are ignored. When no rule matches the Pod failure, the default
  handling applies.
- you may want to restrict a rule to a specific container by specifing its name
  in`spec.podFailurePolicy.rules[*].containerName`. When not specified the rule
  applies to all containers. When specified, it should match one the container
  or initContainer names in the Pod template.
- you may specify the action taken when a Pod failure policy is matched by
  `spec.podFailurePolicy.rules[*].action`. Possible values are:
  - `FailJob`: use to indicate that the Pod's job should be marked as Failed and
     all running Pods should be terminated.
  - `Ignore`: use to indicate that the counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit`
     should not be incremented and a replacement Pod should be created.

>   - `Count`: use to indicate that the Pod should be handled in the default way -

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - `Count`: use to indicate that the Pod should be handled in the default way. 
```

>      the counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` should be incremented.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     The counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` should be incremented.
```

- the Pod failure policy rules you specify under `spec.podFailurePolicy.rules`
  are evaluated in order. Once a rule matches a Pod failure, the remaining of
  the rules are ignored. When no rule matches the Pod failure, the default
  handling applies.
- you may want to restrict a rule to a specific container by specifing its name
  in`spec.podFailurePolicy.rules[*].containerName`. When not specified the rule
  applies to all containers. When specified, it should match one the container
  or initContainer names in the Pod template.
- you may specify the action taken when a Pod failure policy is matched by
  `spec.podFailurePolicy.rules[*].action`. Possible values are:
  - `FailJob`: use to indicate that the Pod's job should be marked as Failed and
     all running Pods should be terminated.
  - `Ignore`: use to indicate that the counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit`
     should not be incremented and a replacement Pod should be created.
  - `Count`: use to indicate that the Pod should be handled in the default way -
     the counter towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` should be incremented.

{{< note >}}

> You may also want to practice how to apply the Pod failure policy, based on

Reviewer 2: I don't think this needs to be a note. Also, maybe it's enough to have this listed in this section https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#what-s-next

But I'll let sig-docs recommend the best approach.

Author: Moved to what's new. I think consistency is important for a reader.

`manualSelector: true` tells the system that you know what you are doing and to allow this
mismatch.

> ### Custom pod failure policy {#pod-failure-policy}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Pod failure policy {#pod-failure-policy}
```

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="alpha" >}}

{{< note >}}
You can only configure a Pod failure policy for a Job if you have the
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled in your cluster: `JobPodFailurePolicy`. Additionally, it is recommended
to enable the `PodDisruptionsCondition` feature gate in order to be able to detect and handle
pod disruption conditions in the Pod failure policy (see also:
[Pod disruption conditions](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions#pod-disruption-conditions)). Both feature gates are
available in Kubernetes v1.25.
{{< /note >}}

In some situations you may want to have a better control over handling of Pod
failures than the default policy based on the Job's `.spec.backoffLimit` gives
(see: [Pod backoff failure policy](#pod-backoff-failure-policy)).

For example, you may want to terminate a job as soon as one of its Pods fails

> with an exit code indicating a software bug. This may allow you to cut down costs of running computational

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with an exit code indicating a software bug. This may allow you to cut down costs of running
```

workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod restarts. On the other hand, you may want
not to count pod failures caused by disruptions (such as preemption, eviction API
or taint-based Pod deletions) towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` counter.

You can satisfy the above use cases by specifying a Pod failure policy
(in the `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field) for handling Pod failures based on the
container exit codes and the Pod conditions.

Here is a manifest for a Job that defines a `podFailurePolicy`:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      containers:
      - name: example
        image: example-job-image:v1
        ...
  backoffLimit: 6
  podFailurePolicy:
    rules:
    - action: FailJob
      onExitCodes:

>         containerName: example   # optional

Reviewer 2: maybe choose a different name, such as `main`?

Author: Switched to main

        operator: In             # one of: In, NotIn
        values: [42]
    - action: Ignore             # one of: Ignore, FailJob, Count
      onPodConditions:

>       - type: DisruptionTarget   # indicates Pod disruption

Reviewer 2: Explain this rule below

Author: Rephrased this bit.

```

The example manifest exclude Pod disruptions from counting towards the
`.spec.backoffLimit` counter. For the `example` container specifically:

- an exit status of 0 means that the container succeeded
- an exit status of 42 means that the **entire Job** has failed

> - any other exit status represents a fault that is specific to the `example` container.

Reviewer 2: maybe explain what would happen if the `example` container exits with a value different than 42 or 0. And what happens with other containers.

Author: Rephrased this bit

Because the Pod template specifies a `restartPolicy: Never`, the kubelet does
not restart the `example` container in that particular Pod for any exit code of `example`.

> For example, if the `example` container exits with status 1, only the Pod where this failure

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this sentence. Can you rephrase?

FYI: RestartPolicy is for all the containers in a pod

Author: Rephrased this bit

happens is affected.

If you trigger Job failure for a Job that is running multiple Pods, Kubernetes shuts down

> all the Pods in that Job.

Reviewer 2: and marks the Job as failed.

Author: Rephrased this bit.

annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-tracking`. You should **not** manually add
or remove this annotation from Jobs.

> ### Specifying your Pod failure policy

Reviewer 2: Move this before "Job tracking with finalizers", because this feature is more relevant for users, whereas "Job tracking with finalizers" is more of an implementation detail.

Author: done

> ### Specifying your Pod failure policy

Reviewer: For a _concept_ page, the heading should be more declarative. For example:
```suggestion
### Custom pod failure policy {#pod-failure-policy}
```

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.25" state="alpha" >}}

In some situations you may want to have a better control over handling of Pod
failures than the default policy based on the Job's `.spec.backoffLimit` gives
(see: [Pod backoff failure policy](#pod-backoff-failure-policy)).

For example, you may want to terminate a job as soon as one of its Pods fails

> with an exit code indicating a software bug (for example due to an unknown

Reviewer 2: I would remove the example within the parenthesis. It's too specific and not very illustrative.

Author: ok, I thought it might be useful to note cause it seems to me it might be a common reason which would resonate with many users, but indeed it seems too specific for this paragraph

command invoked). This may allow you to cut down costs of running computational

> workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod restarts. Additionally, you may want to do
> not count pod failures caused by disruptions (such as preemption, eviction API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
workloads by avoiding unnecessary Pod restarts. On the other hand, you may want
not to count pod failures caused by disruptions (such as preemption, eviction API
```

or taint-based Pod deletions) towards the `.spec.backoffLimit` counter.

You can satisfy the above use cases by specifying a Pod failure policy

> (in the `.spec.podFailrePolicy` field) for handling Pod failures based on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(in the `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field) for handling Pod failures based on the
```

container exit codes and the Pod conditions.

> {{< note >}}

Reviewer 2: Put the note at the beginning of the section (after the `###`)

Author: moved

You can only configure a Pod failure policy for a Job if you have the
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/)
enabled in your cluster: `JobPodFailurePolicy`. Additionally, it is recommended

> to enable the `PodDisruptionsCondition` in order to be able to detect and handle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to enable the `PodDisruptionsCondition` feature gate in order to be able to detect and handle
```

pod disruption conditions in the Pod failure policy. Both feature gates are
available in Kubernetes v1.25.
{{< /note >}}

> When you enable `PodDisruptionsCondition` in your cluster, a dedicated Pod

Reviewer 2: I think this should go in another page https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/

Author: updated with x-references between the pages.

`DisruptionTarget` condition is added to indicate a disruption. Its `reason`
field additionally indicates one of the following reasons for the Pod
termination:
- `PreemptionByKubeScheduler` (Pod preempted by kube-scheduler)
- `DeletionByTaintManager` (Pod deleted by taint manager due to NoExecute taint)
- `EvictionByEvictionAPI` (Pod evicted by Eviction API)
- `DeletionByPodGC` (an orphaned Pod deleted by PodGC)

> Example job configuration using this feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a manifest for a Job that defines a `podFailurePolicy:`
```
Please consider making this a downloadable example using the `codenew` shortcode. See https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/write-new-topic/#including-code-from-another-file for details.

Reviewer: @mimowo, would you be willing to make this example runnable and downloadable?

Author: Sure, I would love to, but wondering how to make it both useful and not misleading. The example I give here is sort of what I would expect a client may configure.

 In order to make a runnable and meaningful example I'm wondering about:
- invoke a dummy bash script that exits with an expected exit code ? 
- should I make it clear to the user that the Ignore rule is fired, to fire the rule I would need to ask the user to issue a kubectl drain request or something like this.

Reviewer: > both a small example like this + a larger runnable thing

That sounds good.

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Should this example manifest specify a `restartPolicy`? Also, should this example specify a Job that creates multiple Pods?

Author: Yes, it might be misleading not to include `restartPolicy` it in the example.

Reviewer 2: +1 on using completions and parallelism to show that this can be used in parallel jobs.

apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: example
        image: example-job-image:v1
        ...
  backoffLimit: 6
  podFailurePolicy:
    rules:
    - action: Ignore             # one of: Ignore, FailJob, Count
      onPodConditions:
      - type: DisruptionTarget   # indicates Pod disruption

>     - action: FailJob

Reviewer 2: I think it makes more sense to put this rule first

Author: moved

      onExitCodes:
        containerName: example   # optional
        operator: In             # one of: In, NotIn
        values: [42]
```

> The example job configuration exclude Pod disruptions from counting towards the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example manifest exclude Pod disruptions from counting towards the
```

> `.spec.backoffLimit` counter. A container which exited with code 42 triggers
> termination of the job.

Reviewer: Is this right?
```suggestion
`.spec.backoffLimit` counter. For the `example` container specifically:

- an exit status of 0 means that the container succeeded
- an exit status of 42 means that the **entire Job** has failed
- any other exit status represents a fault that is specific to the `example` container.

Because the Pod template specifies a `restartPolicy: Never`, the kubelet does
not restart the `example` container in that particular Pod for any exit code of `example`.
For example, if the `example` container exits with status 1, only the Pod where this failure
happens is affected.

If you trigger Job failure for a Job that is running multiple Pods, Kubernetes shuts down
all the Pods in that Job.
```

> You may also want to know before crafting your Pod failure policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are some requirements and semantics of the API:
```

- if you want to use a `.spec.podFailurePolicy` field for a Job, you must

>   also define that Job with `.spec.restartPolicy` set to `Never`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  also define that Job's pod template with `.spec.restartPolicy` set to `Never`.
```
